And he was telling that the university
administration thinks that McDonald either lies
to them or is incompetent to give them a straight
answer about how much something is going to cost.
So continue. So in the early days of the 300-inch
project, where Pete Flan was president and Harlan
was pushing it very hard, the...
In my opinion, and I've never had Pete Flawn say
this one way or another, or Jerry Falcon say it, who
had become Flawn's vice president for research
and then later executive vice president provost.
In my opinion, they made us jump through so many
hoops. They wanted outside reviews on a number of
occasions. were extraordinarily cautious in
believing the information we sent up to them. And
then in my opinion, that delayed the project so
long that the oil crunch in Texas happened and
killed it. And that, I've said to other people
that, Without Harlan Smith, there would never,
ever have been a 300-inch project. With Harlan
Smith, it was impossible to accomplish a 300-inch
telescope project because the relations between
him and the administration were such that it took
too damn long to develop it. We almost had the same
problem with the SST. We began involvement in the
SST in 1985. We started talking with Penn State. In
1987, we entered into an agreement with them. But
as late as 1992, the UT administration, with a new
president, same vice president for research,
were having difficulty believing anything we
told them. And we almost lost the SST, even after
Harlan, because of that history that had been
built up. they i think quite literally they simply
did not trust him they respected his his
incredible entrepreneurial ability and they
they respected his ability to communicate with
the public they respected his ability to raise
money and to convince people of the rightness of
the programs he was pursuing but i literally
believe they did not trust him uh After my wife and I
lived most of the last 10 years up in New England,
and frankly, what anybody knows about the
University of Texas, not just from Stardate, but
from McDonald Observatory, that's what the
University of Texas is known for in that part of the
country and in the Midwest, too, where all my
ancestors are. Do you think the administration at
UT appreciates that?
Well, the administration at UT just changed.
We're now on about the fifth president since I've
been there. They come and they go. The new
president, I can't say if he does or not, but I can
tell you this, that I'm optimistic because at the
first Board of Visitors meeting that we had in
February, at which the new president took over in
January, Robert Berdahl, who came from the
University of Illinois, He stood up in front of it
and he said, long before I ever knew that I would
show up here at the University of Texas as
president, I had enjoyed listening on the radio in
Illinois to Stardate. And he said, I'm really
appreciative of what the observatory does in that
regard. So he obviously had started out on the
right foot. The previous president, Bill
Cunningham was very strongly supportive of us all
during his term. And without him, the
spectroscopic survey telescope would have died.
The president before that was Pete Flan. And one of
the first things he said, I can remember driving
across town and hearing it on my radio in my car. He
was giving a halftime talk at a football game. They
were interviewing him at halftime, not a talk. He
was being interviewed. And they asked that
question, what are the preeminent programs at UT
Austin now that you've just taken over as
president? And the first one out of his mouth was
the McDonald Observatory and the Department of
Astronomy program is preeminent as a jewel in our
crown, or some words to that effect. So I think the
presidents have had an appreciation for the
excellence of the program in astronomy at Texas. I
think as money gets tighter and tighter, they
are...
There's a little bit of the climate, what have you
done for us lately type of attitude, which they
have to take. They have to decide what's strong
today, not what was strong 10 or 20 years ago.
What's strong today? And how is that going to help
this university? And so we have to continually
read. 50 years ago, Harvard was the preeminent
astronomy department. But them days is gone
forever.